[maskedtensor] Overview tutorial [1/4] (#2050)
pytorch/tutorials: prototype_source/maskedtensor_overview.rst

            [14,       --],
            [18,       --],
            [22,       --]
        ]
    ])

Why is MaskedTensor useful?
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Because of :class:`MaskedTensor`'s treatment of specified and unspecified values as a first-class citizen
instead of an afterthought (with filled values, nans, etc.), it is able to solve for several of the shortcomings
that regular Tensors are unable to; indeed, :class:`MaskedTensor` was born in a large part due to these recurring issues.

Below, we will discuss some of the most common issues that are still unresolved in PyTorch today
and illustrate how :class:`MaskedTensor` can solve these problems.

Distinguishing between 0 and NaN gradient
-----------------------------------------

One issue that :class:`torch.Tensor` runs into is the inability to distinguish between gradients that are
undefined (NaN) vs. gradients that are actually 0. Because PyTorch does not have a way of marking a value
as specified/valid vs. unspecified/invalid, it is forced to rely on NaN or 0 (depending on the use case), leading
to unreliable semantics since many operations aren't meant to handle NaN values properly. What's even more confusing

> is that sometimes depending on the order of operations, the gradient could vary (e.g. depending on how early

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is that sometimes depending on the order of operations, the gradient could vary (for example, depending on how early
```

    >>> bgrad1
    MaskedTensor(  3.0000, True)

Here, the gradient doesn't even calculate properly (a longstanding issue), whereas :class:`MaskedTensor` handles
it correctly.

Safe Softmax
------------

Safe softmax is another great example of `an issue <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/55056>`__
that arises frequently. In a nutshell, if there is an entire batch that is "masked out"
or consists entirely of padding (which, in the softmax case, translates to being set `-inf`),
then this will result in NaNs, which can leading to training divergence.

Luckily, :class:`MaskedTensor` has solved this issue. Consider this setup:

    >>> data = torch.randn(3, 3)
    >>> mask = torch.tensor([[True, False, False], [True, False, True], [False, False, False]])
    >>> x = data.masked_fill(~mask, float('-inf'))
    >>> mt = masked_tensor(data, mask)
    >>> x
    tensor([[ 0.4216,    -inf,    -inf],
            [-0.7676,    -inf,  1.4216],
            [   -inf,    -inf,    -inf]])
    >>> mt
    MaskedTensor(
    [
        [  0.4216,       --,       --],
        [ -0.7676,       --,   1.4216],
        [      --,       --,       --]
    ]
    )

> Suppose we want to calculate the softmax along `dim=0`. Note that the second column is "unsafe" (i.e. entirely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, we want to calculate the softmax along `dim=0`. Note that the second column is "unsafe" (i.e. entirely
```

    MaskedTensor( 16.6667, True)

In the above example, we've constructed a `y` and would like to calculate the mean of the series while ignoring
the zeros. `torch.nanmean` can be used to do this, but we don't have implementations for the rest of the
`torch.nan*` operations. :class:`MaskedTensor` solves this issue by being able to use the base operation,
and we already have support for the other operations listed in the issue. For example:

    >>> torch.argmin(masked_tensor(y, y != 0))
    MaskedTensor(  1.0000, True)

Indeed, the index of the minimum argument when ignoring the 0's is the 1 in index 1.

:class:`MaskedTensor` can also support reductions when the data is fully masked out, which is equivalent
to the case above when the data Tensor is completely ``nan``. ``nanmean`` would return ``nan``
(an ambiguous return value), while MaskedTensor would more accurately indicate a masked out result.

    >>> x = torch.empty(16).fill_(float('nan'))
    >>> x
    tensor([nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan])
    >>> torch.nanmean(x)
    tensor(nan)
    >>> torch.mean(masked_tensor(x, ~torch.isnan(x)))
    MaskedTensor(--, False)

> 

Reviewer: Add a Conclusion

Conclusion
------------

In this tutorial, we have learned about .....

> This is a similar problem to safe softmax where `0/0 = nan` when what we really want is an undefined value.

Reviewer: Add Further Reading 

Further Reading
----------------
* Link to the next MaskedTensor Tutorial
